2111 cloud native liberty buildpack (#2122)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-04-01-cloud-native-liberty-buildpack.adoc

> ---

Reviewer: there is some kind of problem with this metadata section but I can't tell exactly what it is. If you look at the GitHub file view, the section does not format to be a table as expected. Also, your github pic and link aren't working, nor is hankl showing up as an author, despite all the URLs being correct

Author: I think this is resolved.

layout: post
title: Introducing the Paketo Cloud Native Liberty Buildpack
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/kevin-ortega
author_github: https://github.com/kevin-ortega

> seo-title: Introducing a new method to deploy your cloud native application to any cloud - paketo.io

Reviewer: normally this field ends with "openliberty.io" Im not sure if that's part of the problem

Author: I've made this edit.

seo-description: Use Paketo Buildpacks to easily build your apps and keep them updated.  Buildpacks transform your application source code into container images without creating a Dockerfile!

> blog_description: Use Paketo Buildpacks to easily build your apps and keep them updated.  Buildpacks transform your application 

Reviewer: blog description value needs to be enclosed in quotes

Reviewer: also, only need one space after "keep them updated."

Author: I made these edits.

> blog_description: "Use Paketo Buildpacks to easily build your apps and keep them updated. Buildpacks transform your application" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blog_description: "Use Paketo Buildpacks to easily build your apps and keep them updated. Buildpacks transform your application source code into container images without creating a Dockerfile!" 
```

> source code into container images without creating a Dockerfile!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

// Replace AUTHOR_NAME with your name as first author.
// Replace GITHUB_USERNAME with your GitHub username eg: lauracowen
// Replace DESCRIPTION with a short summary (~60 words) of the release (a more succinct version of the first paragraph of the post).
//
// Replace AUTHOR_NAME with your name as you'd like it to be displayed, eg: Laura Cowen
//
// Example post: 2020-02-12-faster-startup-Java-applications-criu.adoc
//
// If adding image into the post add :
// -------------------------
// [.img_border_light]
// image::img/blog/FILE_NAME[IMAGE CAPTION ,width=70%,align="center"]
// -------------------------
// "[.img_border_light]" = This adds a faint grey border around the image to make its edges sharper. Use it around
// screenshots but not around diagrams. Then double check how it looks.
// There is also a "[.img_border_dark]" class which tends to work best with screenshots that are taken on dark backgrounds.
// Once again make sure to double check how it looks
// Change "FILE_NAME" to the name of the image file. Also make sure to put the image into the right folder which is: img/blog
// change the "IMAGE CAPTION" to a couple words of what the image is
// // // // // // // //

> link:https://paketo.io/[Paketo buildpacks] transform your application source code into container images and easily keeps them updated.  

Reviewer: suggested edit:
link:https://paketo.io/[Paketo buildpacks] transform your application source code into container images and easily keep those images updated.

this is correct but a little awkward (buildpacks...keep)

you could also rephrase  to something like

link:https://paketo.io/[Paketo buildpacks] transform your application source code into easily maintained container images.

Author: Thanks, I've made this edit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://paketo.io/[Paketo buildpacks] transform your application source code into container images and easily keep them updated.  
```

== What is a buildpack?

> 

Reviewer: recommend removing the spaces between lines

Author: done

A buildpack is a set of executables that inspects your app source code and creates a plan to build and run your application.  

Paketo buildpacks are toolkits and workflows for building reproducible container images from source code.

> The Paketo Cloud Native Liberty buildpack provides the Open Liberty runtime to a workflow that produces an OCI image that can run just about anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/liberty[Paketo Cloud Native Liberty buildpack] provides the Open Liberty runtime to a workflow that produces an Open Container Initiative (OCI) image that can run just about anywhere.
```

== What do you need?
* Your application source

* link:https://hub.docker.com/search?type=edition&offering=community[Docker]

* The link:https://buildpacks.io/docs/tools/pack/[pack CLI]

== Let's get started!

> Download the sample getting started app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the Open Liberty starter app:
```

Reviewer: Is this example using the OL starter app as "your application source". If so, there should be some kind of explanation- the prereq list suggests they should supply their own source. Or does the starter integrate with the user source app?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples use the link:/blog/2021/08/20/open-liberty-starter.html[Open Liberty starter] app as the application source.
```

[source]
git clone https://github.com/openliberty/guide-getting-started.git
cd guide-getting-started/start

Set a default builder:
[source]
pack config default-builder paketobuildpacks/builder:base

Build the app:
[source]
pack build myapp --env BP_JAVA_APP_SERVER=liberty

> Your application now is ready to run. 

Reviewer: is it now in an OCI image that can run anywhere? If so, we should say, if not, what other steps are needed?

Author: Yes, it's now an OCI image.   I reworded that sentence.

[source]

> == You can build from an on-prem Open Liberty installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Build your app from an on-prem Open Liberty installation
```

> Your application now is ready to run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application is now transformed into an OCI image that is ready to run almost anywhere. 
```

> Using a Liberty packaged server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build from an on-prem Open Liberty installation by using a packaged Liberty server. Run the following command to package your server.
```

[source]
bin/server package defaultServer --include=usr

> The packaged server can then be supplied to the build using the `--path` argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then supply the packaged server to the build by using the `--path` argument:
```

[source]
pack build --path <packaged-server-zip-path> --env BP_JAVA_APP_SERVER=liberty myapp 

> Or to build from a Liberty server installation, change your working directory to the installation root containing the wlp directory and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can build from a Liberty server installation by changing your working directory to the installation root that contains the `wlp` directory and running the following command:
```
